README.md, before:

# Swipe - A CoffeeScript App Framework

Swipe is a simple javascript  framework which allows for easy development
of a HTML5 application. You must be using CoffeeScript to develop with Swipe
otherwise your life will be pretty bad.

Before we get started, this is **not** designed to be very complicated and
really should not be compared to other JS frameworks like Ember or Backbone.
It has been developed for use in the development of our own applications 
which follow our own design pattern. If you like it, great - feel free to use
it. If you don't, that's fair enough, there are plenty of other great frameworks
out there for you to look at it.

**If you prefer to jump right in, I would recommend taking a look at the examples
in this repo. The example 'app.coffee' and 'index.html' are well commented and
show how to get up and running quite easily.** [View a live example?](http://adamcooke.github.com/swipe)

Please also note, we are still working on this and it will be developed constantly
over the next few months and should not be considered stable or feature-locked.

Now, onwards with some theory... 

## Layouts

A layout is an HTML document which includes an area for views to be inserted
within. You should define a default layout class within the Swipe.App namespace
as shown below. 

```coffee
class Swipe.App.DefaultLayout extends Swipe.Layout
  
  # Specify the default template for the layout
  template: -> Swipe.getTemplate('default-layout')
```

When using the `Swipe.getTemplate(name, vars)` method, it will automatically return
an HTML string which can been found by looking for a `<script>` object with the ID
`tpl-#{name}`. All templates will be passed through Handlebars and the vars passed
to the `getTemplate` method will be available.

Layouts will be loaded directly into the `<body>` of the page so your template should
reflect this positioning. An example HTML layout may look like the code below. In
all cases a layout should define an object with the ID `views`. This is where your
views will be stacked.

```html
<header>
  <h1>My Website</h1>
</header>
<div id='views'></div>
<footer>
  <p>&copy; My Website 2013</p>
</footer>
```

When a layout is inserted into the page, it will be wrapped within in a `<div>` object.
This tag will have and ID of `swipeLayout` and only one can be present at a time.

If a new layout is loaded into your application, any existing layout along with it's 
view stack will be removed.

### Loading a layout

In order to load a layout into your page, you need to load it. Loading a layout is
usually one of the first things which happens in the application and occurs in your
main `application.coffee` file.

```coffee
Swipe.initializeApp ()->
  # Load the default layout for the application when the DOM has
  # been loaded.
  $(document).ready ->
    Swipe.App.DefaultLayout.load()
```

If you want to change layout within your application, you can do so by just loading in
your other layout. This will do everything needed to unload any existing layout and load
your new layout.

```coffee
Swipe.App.LoginLayout.load()
```

## Views

A view is a page which is displayed within your layout. They function in a similar 
way to layouts and each view has it's own class.

Unlike layouts, you can insert as many views into your page as you wish. Each view 
has a unique ID which identifies it within your page's view stack.

```coffee
class Swipe.App.TicketView extends Swipe.View

  # Specify the default template for the view
  template: -> Swipe.getTemplate('ticket-view')
  
```

To display a view in your page, you need to load it in a similar way to layouts. 
You will call it's `load` method and pass an ID (as a string) and an, optional, 
function to execute when the tab has been loaded

```coffee
Swipe.App.TicketView.load id, (completeFunction)->

  # We will set some properties for the view. 'this' is the instance
  # of the new view.
  this.properties             = {}
  this.properties.subject     = "My Example Ticket Subject"
  this.properties.reference   = "AB-123123"
  
  # Setting the pageTitle variable will ensure the page's <title>
  # attribute is set as appropriate when the view is visible.
  this.setPageTitle this.properties.subject
  
  # We must remember to execute the completeFunction function when
  # we're finishing loading.
  completeFunction.call()
```

If a view with the provided ID does not exist on your view stack, it will be loaded
otherwise the view will be initialized and inserted onto the stack.

If you pass a function to the `load` method, this will be executed before the view
is added to the stack and displayed to the user. You can use this method to load
data from an external source, if needed. However, it is important to remember to
execute the passed `completeFunction` otherwise the view loading will not complete
and the view will not be inserted into your stack.

## Routing

Swipe includes a routing engine which allows you to convert a URL into a view. For
example, you may wish to route `tickets/AB-123123` to your TicketView and `contact/1`
to a ContactView. Any changes to the URL will cause the router to trigger it's associated
method. 

```coffee
Swipe.Router.add 'ticket', '/ticket/:ref', ->
  Swipe.App.TicketView.loadFromReference this.ref

Swipe.Router.add 'contact', '/contact/:id', ->
  Swipe.App.ContactView.loadFromId this.id
```

You will notice that we have used a `loadFromReference` and `loadFromId` method. These
are not part of the framework and are often configured on the View object to assist
with loading external resources. Essentially, they are just methods which call the
`load` method we talked about earlier.

All views remember the URL they were open with and if a view is brought back into focus,
the URL will be updated automatically.

There are a number of other methods on the router which may be helpful:

```coffee
Swipe.Router.linkTo 'ticket', {ref: 'AB-123123'}    #=> '/ticket/AB-123123'
Swipe.Router.goTo 'ticket', {ref: 'AB-123123'}      #=> executes the matched route
Swipe.Router.currentURL()                           #=> '/contact/1'
```

## The Store

Storing preferences & user data locally is made easy using the `Swipe.Store` object.
This provides an interface to the HTML5 Local Storage API.

```coffee
Swipe.Store.put 'hello', 'world'      #=> 'world'
Swipe.Store.get 'hello'               #=> 'world'
Swipe.Store.delete 'hello'            #=> true
```

## Exploring Views & Layouts

Layouts & Views implement a great way to manage behaviours & keyboard shortcut as well
as hooking into the view lifecycle.

### Keyboard Shortcuts

Keyboard shortcuts are vital for modern HTML5 applications and Swipe treats them well and
provides a nice interface for managing which keyboard shortcuts are available and when.

Keyboard shortcuts can be assigned to views and they will be only be active when the
view is visible.

```coffee
Swipe.App.TicketView.addKeyboardShortcut 'ctrl+s', {}, ->
  alert "Subject is #{this.properties.subject}"
```

### Behaviours

It's more than likely that you'll need to attach functions to various events which occur
within your views. For example, you may wish to display an alert box when a link is clicked,
handle a form submission or something else entirely.

Behaviours allow you to automatically bind functions to elements inserted into your view
when it is loaded.

```coffee
Swipe.App.TicketView.addBehaviour 'click', 'ul.list li a', (view)->
  alert "You clicked on a link in the list!"
  
Swipe.App.TicketView.addBehaviour 'submit', 'form', (view)->
  form = $(this).attr 'href'
  view.submitFormTo form
```

### View Lifecycle

There are number of built-in hooks which you can attach methods to. The primary reason for
this is that it allows you to extend your view from an alternative file.

The main hooks which you may wish to use are:

* `load` - called when the view is loaded for the first time (layouts & views)
* `unload` - called when the view is removed from the DOM (layouts & views)
* `focus` - called when an existing view is brought into the foreground (views only)
* `blur` - called when a view is hidden (views only)
* `visible` - called when a view is made visible (loaded or brought into focus)
* `hidden` - called when a view is no longer visible (unloaded or blurred)

```coffee
Swipe.App.TicketView.addBindEvent 'load', ->
  console.log "I have been loaded!"

Swipe.App.TicketView.addBindEvent 'focus', ->
  console.log "I have just been brought into focus. I am #{this}!"
```

If you have a complicated view, you can trigger your own hooks. You can add hooks for
any "event" that you see fit. To trigger all functions currently bound to an event, you
can execute:

```coffee
Swipe.App.TicketView.runBoundEvents 'event', view, otherArgs...
```

## Bundled Utilities

Swipe is bundled with a number of external/3rd party utilities which are useful in
pretty much every application.

* [jQuery](http://jquery.com/)
* [Handlebars](http://handlebarsjs.com/)
* [Moment.js](http://momentjs.com/)
* [Mousetrap](http://craig.is/killing/mice)
* MD5
* [AutoComplete](http://www.devbridge.com/projects/autocomplete/jquery/)
* [AutoLink](https://github.com/bryanwoods/autolink-js)
* [AutoResize](https://github.com/jackmoore/autosize)

Commit message:

add support for multiple view containers

README.md, after:

# Swipe - A CoffeeScript App Framework

Swipe is a simple javascript  framework which allows for easy development
of a HTML5 application. You must be using CoffeeScript to develop with Swipe
otherwise your life will be pretty bad.

Before we get started, this is **not** designed to be very complicated and
really should not be compared to other JS frameworks like Ember or Backbone.
It has been developed for use in the development of our own applications 
which follow our own design pattern. If you like it, great - feel free to use
it. If you don't, that's fair enough, there are plenty of other great frameworks
out there for you to look at it.

**If you prefer to jump right in, I would recommend taking a look at the examples
in this repo. The example 'app.coffee' and 'index.html' are well commented and
show how to get up and running quite easily.** [View a live example?](http://adamcooke.github.com/swipe)

Please also note, we are still working on this and it will be developed constantly
over the next few months and should not be considered stable or feature-locked.

Now, onwards with some theory... 

## Layouts

A layout is an HTML document which includes an area for views to be inserted
within. You should define a default layout class within the Swipe.App namespace
as shown below. 

```coffee
class Swipe.App.DefaultLayout extends Swipe.Layout
  
  # Specify the default template for the layout
  template: -> Swipe.getTemplate('default-layout')
```

When using the `Swipe.getTemplate(name, vars)` method, it will automatically return
an HTML string which can been found by looking for a `<script>` object with the ID
`tpl-#{name}`. All templates will be passed through Handlebars and the vars passed
to the `getTemplate` method will be available.

Layouts will be loaded directly into the `<body>` of the page so your template should
reflect this positioning. An example HTML layout may look like the code below. In
all cases a layout should define an object with the ID `views`. This is where your
views will be stacked (by default).

```html
<header>
  <h1>My Website</h1>
</header>
<div id='views'></div>
<footer>
  <p>&copy; My Website 2013</p>
</footer>
```

When a layout is inserted into the page, it will be wrapped within in a `<div>` object.
This tag will have and ID of `swipeLayout` and only one can be present at a time.

If a new layout is loaded into your application, any existing layout along with it's 
view stack will be removed.

### Loading a layout

In order to load a layout into your page, you need to load it. Loading a layout is
usually one of the first things which happens in the application and occurs in your
main `application.coffee` file.

```coffee
Swipe.initializeApp ()->
  # Load the default layout for the application when the DOM has
  # been loaded.
  $(document).ready ->
    Swipe.App.DefaultLayout.load()
```

If you want to change layout within your application, you can do so by just loading in
your other layout. This will do everything needed to unload any existing layout and load
your new layout.

```coffee
Swipe.App.LoginLayout.load()
```

## Views

A view is a page which is displayed within your layout. They function in a similar 
way to layouts and each view has it's own class.

Unlike layouts, you can insert as many views into your page as you wish. Each view 
has a unique ID which identifies it within your page's view stack.

```coffee
class Swipe.App.TicketView extends Swipe.View

  # Specify the default template for the view
  template: -> Swipe.getTemplate('ticket-view')
  
```

To display a view in your page, you need to load it in a similar way to layouts. 
You will call it's `load` method and pass an ID (as a string) and an, optional, 
function to execute when the tab has been loaded

```coffee
Swipe.App.TicketView.load id, (completeFunction)->

  # We will set some properties for the view. 'this' is the instance
  # of the new view.
  this.properties             = {}
  this.properties.subject     = "My Example Ticket Subject"
  this.properties.reference   = "AB-123123"
  
  # Setting the pageTitle variable will ensure the page's <title>
  # attribute is set as appropriate when the view is visible.
  this.setPageTitle this.properties.subject
  
  # We must remember to execute the completeFunction function when
  # we're finishing loading.
  completeFunction.call()
```

If a view with the provided ID does not exist on your view stack, it will be loaded
otherwise the view will be initialized and inserted onto the stack.

If you pass a function to the `load` method, this will be executed before the view
is added to the stack and displayed to the user. You can use this method to load
data from an external source, if needed. However, it is important to remember to
execute the passed `completeFunction` otherwise the view loading will not complete
and the view will not be inserted into your stack.

### Multiple View Containers

In some cases, you may wish to open a view in a different container within your layout.
By default, all pages will be loaded into the element with the ID `views`. If you wish
to create a view which loads into a different element, you can change this on a per-view
basis.

```coffee
class Swipe.App.ContactView extends Swipe.View
  viewContainer: '#contact'
```

When you specify a different view container for a view, only the contents of this container
will be hidden when it is unfocused (or another view is pushed into the stack). The views
shown in other containers will remain visible.

One item to note about this functionality is that the contents of your URL will most likely
only ever update one view which means other views can end up unloaded unless load the other
views on load too.

## Routing

Swipe includes a routing engine which allows you to convert a URL into a view. For
example, you may wish to route `tickets/AB-123123` to your TicketView and `contact/1`
to a ContactView. Any changes to the URL will cause the router to trigger it's associated
method. 

```coffee
Swipe.Router.add 'ticket', '/ticket/:ref', ->
  Swipe.App.TicketView.loadFromReference this.ref

Swipe.Router.add 'contact', '/contact/:id', ->
  Swipe.App.ContactView.loadFromId this.id
```

You will notice that we have used a `loadFromReference` and `loadFromId` method. These
are not part of the framework and are often configured on the View object to assist
with loading external resources. Essentially, they are just methods which call the
`load` method we talked about earlier.

All views remember the URL they were open with and if a view is brought back into focus,
the URL will be updated automatically.

There are a number of other methods on the router which may be helpful:

```coffee
Swipe.Router.linkTo 'ticket', {ref: 'AB-123123'}    #=> '/ticket/AB-123123'
Swipe.Router.goTo 'ticket', {ref: 'AB-123123'}      #=> executes the matched route
Swipe.Router.currentURL()                           #=> '/contact/1'
```

## The Store

Storing preferences & user data locally is made easy using the `Swipe.Store` object.
This provides an interface to the HTML5 Local Storage API.

```coffee
Swipe.Store.put 'hello', 'world'      #=> 'world'
Swipe.Store.get 'hello'               #=> 'world'
Swipe.Store.delete 'hello'            #=> true
```

## Exploring Views & Layouts

Layouts & Views implement a great way to manage behaviours & keyboard shortcut as well
as hooking into the view lifecycle.

### Keyboard Shortcuts

Keyboard shortcuts are vital for modern HTML5 applications and Swipe treats them well and
provides a nice interface for managing which keyboard shortcuts are available and when.

Keyboard shortcuts can be assigned to views and they will be only be active when the
view is visible.

```coffee
Swipe.App.TicketView.addKeyboardShortcut 'ctrl+s', {}, ->
  alert "Subject is #{this.properties.subject}"
```

### Behaviours

It's more than likely that you'll need to attach functions to various events which occur
within your views. For example, you may wish to display an alert box when a link is clicked,
handle a form submission or something else entirely.

Behaviours allow you to automatically bind functions to elements inserted into your view
when it is loaded.

```coffee
Swipe.App.TicketView.addBehaviour 'click', 'ul.list li a', (view)->
  alert "You clicked on a link in the list!"
  
Swipe.App.TicketView.addBehaviour 'submit', 'form', (view)->
  form = $(this).attr 'href'
  view.submitFormTo form
```

### View Lifecycle

There are number of built-in hooks which you can attach methods to. The primary reason for
this is that it allows you to extend your view from an alternative file.

The main hooks which you may wish to use are:

* `load` - called when the view is loaded for the first time (layouts & views)
* `unload` - called when the view is removed from the DOM (layouts & views)
* `focus` - called when an existing view is brought into the foreground (views only)
* `blur` - called when a view is hidden (views only)
* `visible` - called when a view is made visible (loaded or brought into focus)
* `hidden` - called when a view is no longer visible (unloaded or blurred)

```coffee
Swipe.App.TicketView.addBindEvent 'load', ->
  console.log "I have been loaded!"

Swipe.App.TicketView.addBindEvent 'focus', ->
  console.log "I have just been brought into focus. I am #{this}!"
```

If you have a complicated view, you can trigger your own hooks. You can add hooks for
any "event" that you see fit. To trigger all functions currently bound to an event, you
can execute:

```coffee
Swipe.App.TicketView.runBoundEvents 'event', view, otherArgs...
```

## Bundled Utilities

Swipe is bundled with a number of external/3rd party utilities which are useful in
pretty much every application.

* [jQuery](http://jquery.com/)
* [Handlebars](http://handlebarsjs.com/)
* [Moment.js](http://momentjs.com/)
* [Mousetrap](http://craig.is/killing/mice)
* MD5
* [AutoComplete](http://www.devbridge.com/projects/autocomplete/jquery/)
* [AutoLink](https://github.com/bryanwoods/autolink-js)
* [AutoResize](https://github.com/jackmoore/autosize)
